How are bars aggregated? Minute and daily bars are aggregated from trades. The (SIP) timestamp of the trade is truncated to the minute for minute bars and to the day (in New York) for daily bars. For example, a trade at 14:52:28 belongs to the 14:52:00 minute bar, which contains all the trades between 14:52:00 (inclusive) and 14:53:00 (exclusive). The timestamp of the bar is the left side of the interval (14:52:00 in this example). There are three parts of the bar that a trade can potentially update: open / close price high / low price volume The rules of these updates depend on the tape of the trade ( A , B : NYSE, C : Nasdaq, O : OTC) the conditions of the trade the type of the bar ( M : minute, D : daily) Some rules are different for minute and daily bars. For example P (Prior Reference Price) relates to an obligation to trade at an earlier point in the trading day. This will update the high / low price of a daily bar but will not update the high / low price of a minute bar, because that price possibly happened in another minute. The rules are based on the guidelines of the SIPs: the CTS specification for NYSE (tape A and B ) the UTP specification for Nasdaq (tape C ) the TDDS specification for OTC (tape O ) The following table contains all the updating rules: Condition code Condition description Tape Bar type Update open / close Update high / low Update volume Regular Sale AB MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 @ Regular Sale CO MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 A Acquisition C MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 B Average Price Trade AB MD 🔴 🔴 🟢 B Bunched Trade C MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 C Cash Sale ABCO MD 🔴 🔴 🟢 D Distribution C MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 E Automatic Execution AB MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 F Intermarket Sweep ABC MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 G Bunched Sold Trade C M 🔴 🔴 🟢 G Bunched Sold Trade C D 🟡 🟢 🟢 H Price Variation Trade ABC MD 🔴 🔴 🟢 I Odd Lot Trade ABCO MD 🔴 🔴 🟢 K Rule 127 or Rule 155 ABC MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 L Sold Last ABC MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 M Market Center Official Close ABC MD 🔴 🔴 🔴 N Next Day ABCO MD 🔴 🔴 🟢 O Market Center Opening Trade ABC MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 P Prior Reference Price ABCO M 🔴 🔴 🟢 P Prior Reference Price ABCO D 🟡 🟢 🟢 Q Market Center Official Open ABC MD 🔴 🔴 🔴 R Seller ABCO MD 🔴 🔴 🟢 T Extended Hours Trade ABCO M 🟢 🟢 🟢 T Extended Hours Trade ABCO D 🔴 🔴 🟢 U Extended Trading Hours ABCO MD 🔴 🔴 🟢 V Contingent Trade ABC MD 🔴 🔴 🟢 W Average Price Trade CO MD 🔴 🔴 🟢 X Cross Trade ABC MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 Y Yellow Flag Regular Trade C MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 Z Sold Out Of Sequence ABC M 🔴 🔴 🟢 Z Sold Out Of Sequence ABC D 🟡 🟢 🟢 4 Derivatively Priced ABC M 🔴 🔴 🟢 4 Derivatively Priced ABC D 🟡 🟢 🟢 5 Market Center Reopening Trade ABC MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 6 Market Center Closing Trade ABC MD 🟢 🟢 🟢 7 Qualified Contingent Trade ABC MD 🔴 🔴 🟢 9 Corrected Consolidated Close ABC M 🔴 🔴 🔴 9 Corrected Consolidated Close ABC D 🟢 🟢 🔴 🟢 means that the given condition updates the value 🟡 means that the given condition updates the open / close price only if the trade is the first trade of the bar 🔴 means that the given condition does not update the value In the original CTS / UTP specifications, there are some more complicated update rules (see the footnotes in the linked specifications), but we don't use any of these. In most of the cases, we simply use 🟡 (or 🟢) instead. A trade can have more than one condition. In this case the strictest rule is applied. For example, if a Nasdaq trade has these conditions: @ , 4 , I and a daily bar is being generated, none of the prices of the bar are going to be updated (both open / close and high / low is 🔴 because it's an odd lot trade), only the volume 🟢 is going to be updated. If the trade had no I condition ( @ and 4 only), then the open / close price would only be updated if this is the first trade of the bar 🟡 , and both the high / low price 🟢 and the volume 🟢 would be updated. If it was a regular trade ( @ ), then all of its values would be updated. Once the combined updating rule of the trade has been calculated, the bar's fields are updated: Open is set if it hasn't been set yet and the update open / close rule is 🟢 or 🟡 High is set if it hasn't been set yet or if the price of the trade is higher than the previous high and the update high / low is 🟢 Low is set if it hasn't been set yet or if the price of the trade is lower than the previous low and the update high / low rule is 🟢 Close is set if the update open / close rule is 🟢 or if it's 🟡 and the close price hasn't been set yet Volume is increased by the size of the trade if the update volume rule is 🟢 The trade count is increased by one if the update volume rule is 🟢 VWAP is the ratio of these two internal variables: The volume-weighted total price is increased by the product of the trade's price and volume if both the update high / low rule and the update volume rule is 🟢 The total volume is increased by the size of the trade if both the update high / low rule and the update volume rule is 🟢. This means that this volume can be different from the "normal" volume field of the bar if there are trades in the bar that update the volume but not the high / low price (for example condition R ) Finally, the bar is only emitted if none of its fields (open, high, low, close, volume) are 0. So if there are no trades in the bar's interval, or if there's only a single I trade (which only updates the volume, but none of the prices), then no bar is generated. All the other non-minute and non-daily bars are aggregated from the minute and daily bars. For example, an hour ( 1Hour ) bar is aggregated from all the minute bars in the given hour and a weekly bar ( 1Week ) is aggregated from all the daily bars in the given week. This aggregation no longer considers the actual trades that happened in the given interval, but instead the bars are aggregated using these rules: Open is the open of the first bar High is the maximum of the bars' high prices Low is the minimum of the bars' low prices Close is the close of the last bar Volume is the sum of the bars' volumes Trade count is the sum of the bars' trade counts VWAP is the volume-weighted average of the bars' VWAPs Options Why are Greeks & implied volatility missing for some contract symbols? Greeks and implied volatility are not always available for all contracts. The issue is not the data plan, b